Now let's calculate the node importance.
The node importance in sklearn is calculated as
the difference between the Gini impurity of the node,
the parent node, and the impurities of its child nodes.
These Gini impurities are weighted by the number of data points that reach each node.
So if we think, for instance,
the root node has a certain impurity that we calculate and
its left and right child each also has a Gini impurity that we can calculate.
So we can see that we're getting the difference between the parent node and
its child nodes and we're also weighting them by
how many samples actually filtered into the left or right node.
So here's just a quick summary of the node labels and we can actually
see this from checking out the children left and children right lists.
But node zero is the root node and its left and right children are node one and node two.
Node one is a leaf node,
node two has two children,
which are node three and node four and those are also leaf nodes.
Just to show you again this visual is the same thing.
So here's node zero,
node one, node two,
node three, node four.
So you can take a look at this visual as well.
Okay. Back to node importance.
So here's an example.
Calculate the node importance of the root node, node zero.
Remember its child nodes are node one and two.
So I'm just going to type this out.
So we can look at it slowly.
So the node importance of the root node,
node zero is the number of samples in the root node.
That's the weight times the impurity of the root node. All right.
So that is this part of the formula right
here and then subtract the impurities of the children.
So tree the weighted node samples of the left child,
which is node one times the impurity node one.
Okay and also include the weighted and node samples of the right child,
which is node two and then multiplied by the impurity of node two.
All right. So the importance of node zero is 12.5.
For the quiz, you'll do something quite similar.
So calculate the node importance of node two and remember that
its left and right child nodes are three and four and when you're done with that,
sum up the node importances.
So only node zero and two have node importances
because they are the only ones that actually have a feature that splits.
The others are leaf nodes.
So once you're done with that,
please check out the solution video. Thanks.